The company was established in 1924 under the name Vickers & Benson Inc. with an
office in Toronto, Canada. The company operated under that name for the next 76
years during which it made itself quite a name in Canadian advertising. Along
with the name came a long list of respectable clients, several hundred
employees, and an additional office in Chicago, USA.

On February 22, 2001, V&B changed its name to Vickers & Benson Arnold Inc. as a
result of an acquisition by Havas Advertising, which is the world's fifth
largest commmunications agency. Under Havas a partnership was formed between V&B
and Arnold Inc., a US advertising agency. The new name was due to this
partnership.

During the course of the next two years several other companies joined the
Arnold partnership and on March 26, 2003 Vickers & Benson Arnold Inc. became
Arnold Worldwide. Under this name the agency services clients in Argentina,
Brazil, Chile, Canda, ...., USA.

At the head of Arnold Worldwide's Toronto office lies their graphics production
studio Southside. All of Canadian still image campaigns as well as some work
for the US are produced at Southside. Out of the Toronto office's 180 employees
38 belong to the studio. The graphic designers at the studio are a team of
extremely skillful professionals whose creative talents have provided some of
the world's largest companies with top-notch advertising for the last 80 years.

Over the years the studio serviced such clients as McDonald's, Bank of Montreal,
Harris Bank, Volkswagen, Lennox Industries, M&M Meat Shops, Sprint Canada,
Canadian Tire, Monster.ca and many more.

The industry itself and the sort of clients that Southside services are such
that the greatest degreee of care needs to be taken in acquiring and employing
every bit of information about the client and the campaign they may want to run.
Afterall, in this industry it is not the client that comes to an agency
requesting an ad campaign to be produced. Instead, a client signals her intent
to run a series of campaigns and a number of agencies interested in the work
produce preliminary designs and strategies to showcase their abilities. The
client then inspects the work of several agencies and chooses one that fits them
best to become the agency responsible for that campaign or set of campaigns, or
even become the agency responsible for all of the client's advertising within a
particular region or country.

The ability to win such pitches to new clients and the ability to maintain
ongoing relationships with existing clients directly determine a company's
degreee of success in the advertising industry. These abilities come from
wielding a certain kind of power - the power of information. The agency needs to
know everything about a client. What sort of history do they have. What sort of
image are they trying to uphold. What promise are they delivering to their
consumers. Who their consumers are and what types of media they are most exposed
and responsive to. The agency must be aware of their clients' strong and weak
points, the campaigns they have ran in the past, the ideas that worked well and
not so well for them. In addition, the agency needs to know everything there is
to know about the type of campaign they are currently pitching to the client.
They need to be able to supply the client with extensive information on where
these types of campaign were used before, by what clients, what sorts of
consumers do they appeal to, what has the response of the consumers to these
campaigns been in the past. In the end, the client needs to be confident that
they are spneding money on something that suits their needs best, that will
expose the client's strong sides and will downplay their weaker sides, that the
message the agency puts out will be something the client can put their
respectable name behind, that this message will appeal to the consumers and will
drive them to purchase the goods or services the client offers, and will
ultimately increase the client's revenues enough to justify expending their
money on running the campaign.

Although this information can be hard to come by for new clients it can
certainly be acquired for those clients who have a long running relationship
with the agency if all information relevant to a client is properly recorded. An
information system consisting of a set of tools created for the purpose of
recording, maintaining and querying information related to various clients and
projects can become an advertising agency's biggest asset second in importance
only to creative talents employed at the agency.

Arnold Worldwide, Toronto, specializes in establishing long term relationships
with their clients and evolving their brand names in the eyes of both the
consumers and the clients themselves. They seek to provide the clients with a
comprehensive history of their engagement with the agency through which the
client can observe first-hand how their brand name evolves. They seek to utilize
their past experience to the highest degree possible in offering their clients
new solutions and managing resources internally. It is their goal and
commitment to not only survive, but to continue to prosper in the advertising
industry and they have turned to modern information technology in order to
achieve this goal. 

The design of the information system contained in this document is aimed at 
addressing the need of Arnold Worldwide's graphics production studio Southside
to establish a framework for efficient project management and digital asset
maintenance. In this design it was our goal to minimize the changes to the
current system of business process established at Southside since it has proven
to be adequate in maintaining the studio's operations to date. 
