1. Jamieson, Lynn.
Cohabitation and commitment: partnership plans of young men and women.
In: Sociological review : (Keele). 2002, v.50, no.3, pp. 356-377, ISSN 0038-0261.
 Robarts - HM1 .S699

Summary: Popular commentators on marriage and the family often interpret the
increase in heterosexual couples living together without marrying as reduced
willingness to create and honour life-long partnerships. Survey and in-depth
interviews with samples of 20-29 year olds living in an urban area of 
Scotland finds little support for the postulated link between growing 
cohabitation and a weakened sense of commitment to long-term arrangements.
Most of the cohabiting couples strongly stressed their 'commitment'. 
Socially acceptable vocabularies of motive undoubtedly influenced answers
but interviews helped to explore deeper meanings. Many respondents' 
views were consistent with previous research predictions of a weakening
sense of any added value of marriage. At the same time, some respondents
continued to stress the social significance of the distinction between
marriage and cohabitation, consistent with research interpreting 
cohabitation as a 'try and see' strategy part-way to the perceived 
full commitment of marriage. The notion that 'marriage is better for 
children' continued to have support among respondents. While, on 
average, cohabiting couples had lower incomes and poorer employment 
situations than married couples, only very extreme adverse 
circumstances were presented as making marriage too risky'. 
Pregnancy-provoked cohabitation was not always in this category. 
Cohabitation was maintained because marriage would 'make no. 
Abstract/Summary difference' or because they 'had not yet got round 
to' marriage. Most respondents were more wary of attempting to 
schedule or plan in their personal life than in other domains and 
cohabitees' attitudes to partnership, including their generally 
'committed' approach, do not explain the known greater vulnerability 
of this group to dissolution.


CHECK OUT Marriage and Family Review!!!


2. Jeynes, William H.
The predictive value of parental family structure on attitudes 
regarding premarital pregnancy and the consumption of marijuana.
In: Journal of human behavior in the social environment. 2002, 
v.6, no.1, pp. 1-16, ISSN 1091-1359.

Summary: Over the last twenty-five years, researchers have become greatly 
interested in the predictive value of parental family structure on the 
subsequent behavior and attitudes of adolescents years later. Social 
scientists are increasingly interested on the predictive value of family 
structure on the attitudes of adolescents towards premarital pregnancy and 
their consumption of marijuana. The vast majority of these studies have 
focused on the effects of divorce and remarriage in their analysis. This 
study focuses on the effects of other family structures that are becoming 
increasingly common in our society. Using the NELS data set from the 1988-1992 
periodamines the effects of having a never-married single-parent, 
cohabitation, widowhood and parental separation (not divorce) on the 
attitudes of adolescents towards premarital pregnancy and their likelihood 
of consuming marijuana. The results indicate that the family struct, this 
study exure an adolescent abide in does impact their attitudes and behavior 
four years later. Adolescents in the four family structures studied in 1988 
were more likely to consume marijuana and consider becoming pregnant before 
marriage in 1992. The significance of these results is discussed.



3. Simon, Robin W.
Revisiting the relationships among gender, marital status, and mental health.
In: American journal of sociology. 2002, v.107, no.4, pp. 1065-1096, 
ISSN 0002-9602.
Summary: Three decades ago, Gove introduced his sex-role theory of mental 
illness, which attributes women's higher rates of psychological distress to 
their roles in society. Central to his hypothesis is that marriage is 
emotionally advantageous for men and disadvantageous for women. This article 
revisits this topic with data from the National Survey of Families and 
Households. The analyses indicate that the emotional benefits of marriage 
apply equally to men and women, but that men and women respond to marital 
transitions with different types of emotional problems. The implications of 
these findings for future research on gender and mental health are discussed.


4. Kapinus, Carolyn A.
Personal, moral, and structural commitment to marriage: Gender and the 
effects of family life cycle stage.
In: Sociological focus : (Ohio). 2002, v.35, no.2, pp. 189-205, ISSN 0038-0237.
Robarts - HM1 .S676
 
Summary: This paper is an analytic test of Johnson's commitment framework. 
Johnson's conceptualization of commitment is grounded in the assumption that 
people experience three different types of commitment (personal, moral, and 
structural), and that these types of commitment have different causes and 
consequences. Using data from a 1980 national random sample of married 
respondents, we find that personal, moral, and structural commitments are 
related to the presence and ages of children in the family and that these 
relationships differ for men and women.





5. Dempsey, Ken.
Who gets the best deal from marriage: women or men.
In: Journal of sociology : (South Melbourne). 2002, v.38, no.2, 
pp. 91-110, ISSN 1440-7833.
Robarts - HM1 .A82
 
Summary: Feminists of various kinds - structural, radical, critical, 
materialist - have repeatedly asserted that marriage benefits men more 
than women and usually at women's expense. There is now a considerable 
body of empirical evidence that supports the major thrust of their claims. 
However, there are feminists adopting a post-structuralist perspective who 
argue that many accounts of men's dominance are overly deterministic. The 
argument goes that there is insufficient recognition of change that is 
already ensuring more rewarding marriages for women much of which is 
probably due to women's exercise of agency. It is further argued that, 
in order for women to initiate successful change, it is necessary but not 
sufficient for them to be aware of inequities and other shortcomings 
occurring at specific sites in their marriage. In the present study, a 
sample of 45 wives and 40 husbands were questioned to see if they agreed 
that men generally benefited the most from marriage, to find out what 
reasons they offered for their judgements and to establish if women were 
more conscious than men of the need for specific changes in their own 
marriages. The possibilities of actors negotiating successfully for specific 
change in the face of their partner's opposition are also considered. It is 
argued that women will make only limited gains until men experience a change 
of heart.




6. Zheng Wu.
The effects of marital and nonmarital union transition on health.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2002, v.64, no.2, pp. 420-432, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: This study examines the effects of marital and nonmarital union 
transition on health. Utilizing Canadian longitudinal data, we find that 
exiting both marriage and cohabitation seems to have similar effects: 
Dissolving either union tends to be associated with a decrease in physical 
health, mental health, or both. With possible selection effects eliminated 
and protection effects held constant, we find that remaining in either type 
of union generally is associated with poorer health. We speculate that 
decreased union quality may account for this inverse relationship, and that 
protection effects may explain much of the reported health gains associated 
with union life



7. Crawford, Duane W.
Compatibility, leisure, and satisfaction in marital relationships.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2002, v.64, no.2, pp. 433-449, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: This study challenges the prevailing view that marital companionship 
promotes marital satisfaction. By following a cohort of married couples for 
over a decade and by incorporating several methodological improvements-such 
as refining the measurement of marital satisfaction, determining how much 
spouses enjoy doing the leisure activities they pursue together and apart, 
and using diary data to portray marital leisure patterns-we found that the 
association between companionship and satisfaction is less robust than 
previously believed, and that it depends on how often spouses pursue 
activities that reflect their own and their partner's leisure preferences. 
Over time, involvement in leisure liked by husbands but disliked by wives, 
whether as a couple or by husbands alone, is both a cause and a consequence 
of wives' dissatisfaction.


8. Canary, Daniel J.
A panel study of the associations between maintenance strategies and relational characteristics : Family Resilience.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2002, v.64, no.2, pp. 395-406, ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: Resilience in marriage is tied to the manner in which people 
strategically maintain their relationships. The associations between 
perceptions of five relational maintenance strategies (positivity, openness, 
assurances, social networks, and sharing tasks) and three fundamental 
relationship characteristics (liking, commitment, and control mutuality) are 
examined concurrently and over time. At three points in time, each separated 
by a month, married partners reported their perceptions of partner maintenance 
activities and their own beliefs regarding the relational characteristics. 
Results indicate that perceptions of maintenance strategies significantly add 
to the variance of these relational features, even when controlling for the 
participants' previous reports of the same measures.


9. Kurdek, Lawrence A.
Predicting the timing of separation and marital satisfaction: An eight-year 
prospective longitudinal study.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2002, v.64, no.1, pp. 163-179, ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: Information from the growth curves (initial level and rate of change) 
for individual differences variables over the first 4 years of marriage was 
used to predict the timing of physical separation over the first 8 years of 
marriage and the level of marital satisfaction at the eighth year of marriage 
for an initial sample of 522 married couples. Overall, findings indicated that 
both initial level and change were needed to account for variability in each 
marital outcome. There was no evidence that information from wives' growth 
curves was sufficient to predict either marital outcome.


10. Cohan, Catherine L.
Toward a greater understanding of the cohabitation effect: Premarital 
cohabitation and marital communication.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2002, v.64, no.1, pp. 180-192, ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: The goal of the present study was to examine the relationship between 
premarital cohabitation experience and marital communication in an effort to 
understand the robust finding known as the cohabitation effect, whereby 
couples who cohabit before marriage have greater marital instability than 
couples who do not cohabit. Observed marital problem solving and social 
support behavior were examined as a function of premarital cohabitation 
experience in a sample of 92 couples in the first 2 years of their first 
marriages. Spouses who cohabited before marriage demonstrated more negative 
and less positive problem solving and support behaviors compared to spouses 
who did not cohabit. Sociodemographic, intrapersonal, and interpersonal 
functioning variables did not account for the association between cohabitation 
experience and marital communication.



11. Bru"derl, Josef.
The dissolution of marriages: The role of information and marital-specific capital.
In: Journal of mathematical sociology. 2001, v.25, no.4, pp. 403-421, ISSN 0022-250X.
Summary: Information and marital-specific capital are key concepts in Gary 
Becker's theory of divorce. According to this approach, both information on 
the spouse obtained before marriage and marital-specific capital should 
decrease the risk of divorce. Until now, however, convincing empirical tests 
of these hypotheses have been scarce. This is mainly due to methodological 
problems. On the one hand, available information indicators (like cohabitation)
 are often found to increase the risk of divorce, therefore showing the wrong 
 sign. On the other hand, indicators of marital-specific capital (like 
 children and joint home ownership) are found, as expected, to lower divorce 
 rates, but this effect might be spurious. In this paper, we try to get the 
 facts straight by using data from the Mannheim Divorce study, which was 
 especially designed to overcome these problems. Our results provide strong 
 support for both hypotheses.


12. Marks, Stephen R.
Role balance among white married couples.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2001, v.63, no.4, pp. 1083-1098, ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: We generate models predicting wives' and husbands' feelings of 
overall balance across roles. Drawing on fine-grained data about marital 
life-styles and time use, we find few predictors that are the same for both 
partners. Both report greater role balance when their level of parental 
attachment to children is higher and when their marital satisfaction is 
greater, but gendered time use gives rise to important differences. Wives 
report greater balance when they have more paid work hours but have fewer of 
these hours on weekends. Wives' balance is also greater when they feel less 
financial strain, have less leisure time alone with their children, more 
couple leisure alone with their husbands, and more social network involvement. 
Husbands' contribute to wives' balance when they report more relationship 
maintenance in the marriage and more leisure with their children at those 
times when wives are not present. Husbands' own role balance increases as 
their income rises, but it decreases as their work hours rise. Husbands' 
balance also rises with more nuclear family leisure, and it lessens as their 
leisure alone increases. Our discussion highlights the ways that gendered 
marital roles lead to these different correlates of balance.


13. Amato, Paul R.
The transmission of marital instability across generations: Relationship 
skills or commitment to marriage?
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2001, v.63, no.4, pp. 1038-1051, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: We used national, longitudinal data from 2 generations to assess 
2 explanations for the intergenerational transmission of marital instability, 
one based on relationship skills and the other based on marital commitment. 
Parental divorce approximately doubled the odds that offspring would see 
their own marriages end in divorce. Offspring with maritally distressed 
parents who remained continuously married did not have an elevated risk of 
divorce. Divorce was most likely to be transmitted across generations if 
parents reported a low, rather than a high, level of discord prior to marital 
dissolution. These results, combined with other findings from the study, 
suggest that offspring with divorced parents have an elevated risk of seeing 
their own marriages end in divorce because they hold a comparatively weak 
commitment to the norm of lifelong marriage.



14. Segrin, Chris.
Does television viewing cultivate unrealistic expectations about marriage?
In: Journal of communication. 2002, v.52, no.2, pp. 247-263, ISSN 0021-9916.
Summary: One explanation for the high divorce rate in our society focuses on 
the idealistic expectations with which many people enter into marriage. The 
media have been cited as the source of or major contributor to these 
expectations; however, no empirical evidence exists to support that claim. 
Based on a survey of 285 never-married university students, this study sought 
to examine the relationship between television viewing, holding idealistic 
expectations about marriage, and intentions to marry. Results from regression 
and path analyses indicate that, although overall television viewing has a 
negative association with idealistic marriage expectations, viewing of 
romantic genre programming (e.g., romantic comedies, soap operas) was 
positively associated with idealistic expectations about marriage. Further, a 
strong and positive association between these expectations and marital 
intentions was evidenced. These findings are discussed in terms of both 
cultivation theory and the uses and gratifications perspective of media 
influence.


15. Yan Xu.
Effects of sex, culture, and support type on perceptions of spousal social 
support: An assessment of the support gap hypothesis in early marriage.
In: Human communication research. 2001, v.27, no.4, pp. 535-566, ISSN 0360-3989.
Summary: Several writers have suggested that a support gap characterizes 
modern marriages, with women receiving less support from their spouses than 
men receive from theirs. Although this support gap hypothesis (SGH) is used 
increasingly to explain marital interaction and satisfaction, there have been 
few rigorous evaluations of this hypothesis. In particular, existing research 
on the support gap has not systematically considered (a) different types of 
social support; (b) differences in provided vs. received support; (c) 
differences in reported levels of support desire, experience, and 
satisfaction; or (d) differences in distinct cultural groups with respect 
to social support in marriage. The present study provided a multidimensional 
assessment of desired and experienced spousal social support. Participants 
were recently married men and women (100 Americans and 102 Chinese) who 
completed questionnaires providing assessments of desired and experienced 
levels of spousal support for each of 5 support types. Men and women did 
not differ systematically with respect to the levels of support they 
experienced from their spouses; however, women reported desiring 
significantly higher levels of support from their spouses than did men 
for all 5 types of support. Evaluation of support satisfaction indicated 
that both American and Chinese women experience gaps with respect to 
emotional and esteem support; Chinese women additionally experience a. 
Abstract/Summary gap in network support. These results specify the 
nature of marital support gaps much more precisely than previous work 
and suggest several issues to be addressed in future work.




16. Zimmer, Michael.
Explaining marital dissolution: The role of spouses'traits.
In: Social science quarterly. 2001, v.82, no.3, pp. 464-477, ISSN 0038-4941.
Summary: Objective. One of the most profound changes in American society 
since 1950 has been a decline in the stability of marriages. Many studies 
that focus on marital dissolution are based on analyses of individual 
marriages that track their success or failure over time. Most research 
views the family as a single decision-making unit that arrives at a decision 
concerning the status of the marriage. Previous work has not explicitly 
considered the role of spouses' individual traits in the process of marital 
dissolution. This article treats spouses' behaviors as distinct phenomena. 
Methods. The study is based on the Marital Instability Over the Life Course 
1980-1988 panel data set. The data do not include information on each spouse's 
choice. Instead we observe only the final outcome of the two decisions. 
To address that limitation, the model is estimated using a bivariate probit 
model with partial observability. Results. Estimates indicate that there 
are noteworthy contrasts between spouses with respect to variables that 
induce a choice in favor of marital dissolution. Conclusions. These findings 
suggest that husbands and wives are motivated by different socioeconomic 
factors in decisions relative to the stability of their marriages.


17. Wolfinger, Nicholas H.
The effects of family structure of origin on offspring cohabitation duration.
In: Sociological inquiry. 2001, v.71, no.3, pp. 293-313, ISSN 0038-0245.
Summary: This study uses data from both waves of the National Survey of 
Families and Households to examine the effects of family structure of 
origin on offspring's cohabiting unions. Parental divorce substantially 
decreases the likelihood that these relationships end in marriage, but this 
effect is almost completely ameliorated by parental remarriage. Parental 
divorce also increases the chances that a cohabiting relationship will break 
up, but the effect is much smaller than the impact of parental divorce on 
marital stability. I explain this discrepancy by showing that cohabitation is 
inherently unstable compared to marriage. In a context of instability, 
family structure of origin makes less difference than it does in marriage.


18. Hopper, Joseph.
The symbolic origins of conflict in divorce.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2001, v.63, no.2, pp. 430-445, ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: Divorce often constitutes a dramatic transformation of a close, 
personal, and usually harmonious relationship into one that is deeply 
antagonistic and bitter. Explanations among family researchers typically 
focus on opposing material interests, the adversarial nature of the legal 
system, latent or manifest conflict in marriage, or psychological reactions 
to the pain of divorce. A broadly designed fieldwork investigation of divorce 
suggests an important dimension largely ignored by these explanations: the 
symbolic or cultural. This article describes the process by which a sample of 
divorcing subjects confronted and solved major interpretive dilemmas posed by 
virtue of the shared meaning they and those around them had of marriage. It 
shows that the ways in which they solved such dilemmas created an oppositional 
structure by which they subsequently effected divorce.




19. Vanlaningham, Jody.
Marital happiness, marital duration, and the u-shaped curve : Evidence from a 
five-wave panel study.
In: Social forces. 2001, v.79, no.4, pp. 1313-1341, ISSN 0037-7732.
Summary: Previous research suggests a U-shaped pattern of marital happiness 
over the life course, with happiness declining in the early years of marriage 
and rising in the later years. Most prior studies have been limited by the use 
of cross-sectional data or nonprobability samples. In contrast, the present 
study is based on data from a national, 17-year, 5-wave panel sample. Using 
cross-sectional data from the first wave, we replicate the U-shaped 
relationship between marital happiness and marital duration. In an analysis 
based on a fixed-effects pooled time-series model with multiple-wave panel 
data, we find declines in marital happiness at all marital durations and no 
support for an upturn in marital happiness in the later years. The 
relationship between marital happiness and marital duration is slightly 
curvilinear, with the steepest declines in marital happiness occurring during 
the earliest and latest years of marriage. When other life-course variables 
are controlled, a significant negative effect of marital duration on marital 
happiness remains. For most marriage cohorts, marital happiness declined more 
in the 1980s than in the 1990s, suggesting a period effect. This study 
provides evidence that the U-shaped pattern of marital happiness over the life 
course is an artifact of cross-sectional research and is not typical of U.S. 
marriages.




20. Kurdek, Lawrence A.
Differences between couples who end their marriage by fault or no-fault 
legal procedures.
In: Journal of family psychology. 2001, v.15, no.2, pp. 241-253, ISSN 0893-3200.
Summary: Spouses from 53 couples who ended their marriage by dissolution (DS), 
a form of no-fault divorce, were compared with spouses from 59 couples who 
ended their marriage by fault-based divorce (DV). DV husbands were younger 
than DS husbands. DV couples were less likely to have pooled finances, and 
they had more sons than did DS couples. For growth curves over the first 4 
years of marriage, relative to DS wives, DV wives had lower starting levels 
for liking of spouse, trust, and marital quality; higher starting levels for 
dysfunctional beliefs about relationships and psychological distress; weaker 
declines in extrinsic motives for being married; and stronger declines for 
love for spouse. Relative to DS husbands, DV husbands showed a stronger 
increase in dysfunctional beliefs about relationships. (c) 2001 INIST-CNRS. 
All rights reserved.


21. Bachand, Leslie L.
Ties that bind: a qualitative study of happy long-term marriages.
In: Contemporary family therapy. 2001, v.23, no.1, pp. 105-121, ISSN 0892-2764.
Summary: An abundance of literature exists concerning the marital 
relationship. While most research focuses on divorce and the social 
consequences of this phenomenon, more recently social scientists have 
focused on the marriages that remain intact. The purpose of this study was to 
gain insight into what factors make marriages last. This study used 
qualitative methodology to gain further insight into long-term marriages. 
Interviews were conducted with 15 heterosexual couples who had been married 
for at least 35 years and who identified their marriage as happy. Results 
indicate that for each couple the factors contributing to the longevity of 
their happy marriage were numerous and unique. While the most commonly 
mentioned factors included friendship, love, and similar backgrounds or 
interests, a wide range of responses were elicited. (c) 2001 INIST-CNRS. All 
rights reserved.


22. Barrett, Anne E.
Marital trajectories and mental health.
In: Journal of health and social behavior. 2000, v.41, no.4, pp. 451-464, 
ISSN 0022-1465.
Summary: This study expands the marital status and mental health literature 
by examining several dimensions of marital trajectories, including the number 
and type of prior marital losses and duration in current status. Data are 
drawn from the Piedmont Health Survey of the National Institute of Mental 
Health Epidemiologic CatchmentArea Study, collected in 1982-83 (n = 2,158). 
Results indicate that number of prior losses moderates the health-enhancing 
effect of being currently married; higher order marriages are associated with 
worse mental health, Although results vary across the mental illnesses 
examined (depression, anxiety, and substance use), the negative effect of 
multiple loss also is observed for the currently divorced and widowed. 
There is less evidence that the type of prior loss (i.e., divorce or 
widowhood) moderates the effect of current marital status on mental health; 
however, some support is found among the presently widowed. The analyses of 
duration in current status suggest that the rate of decline in symptoms of 
anxiety following one's most recent loss varies by marital history among the 
currently widowed. (c) 2001 INIST-CNRS. All rights reserved.



23. Shackelford, Todd K.
Self-esteem in marriage.
In: Personality and individual differences. 2001, v.30, no.3, pp. 371-390, 
ISSN 0191-8869.
Summary: This research tested two hypotheses about the evolutionary function 
of self-esteem, with reference to the marital context: Self-esteem evolved 
as a psychological solution to the adaptive problem of (1) tracking 
reproductively-relevant costs inflicted by a spouse, and (2) tracking own 
value as a long-term mate. Two hundred and fourteen individuals evaluated 
their self-esteem and provided information about marital conflict and marital 
satisfaction. Couples were interviewed by two interviewers who independently 
assessed each participant's mate value and physical attractiveness. Results 
provide support for both hypothesized functions of self-esteem. Key findings 
include: husbands' self-esteem is negatively correlated with wives' sexual 
infidelity and with wives' complaints of husbands' abuse and jealousy: wives' 
self-esteem is negatively correlated with husbands' derogation of wives' 
physical attractiveness and positively correlated with interviewer ratings of 
wives' physical attractiveness. Discussion integrates the two hypothesized 
functions of self-esteem with the sociometer hypothesis (M. R. Leary, E. S. 
Tambor, S. K. Terdal & D. L. Downs, 1995: Self-esteem as an interpersonal 
monitor. The sociometer hypothesis. Journal of Personality and Social 
Psychology, 68, 518-530) that self-esteem tracks social rejection. (c) 2001 
INIST-CNRS. All rights reserved.



24. Bradbury, Thomas N.
Research on the nature and determinants of marital satisfaction : 
A decade in review.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2000, v.62, no.4, pp. 964-980, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: Scientific study of marital satisfaction attracted widespread 
attention in the 1990s from scholars representing diverse orientations 
and goals. This article highlights key conceptual and empirical advances 
that have emerged in the past decade, with particular emphasis on (a) 
interpersonal processes that operate within marriage, including cognition, 
affect, physiology, behavioral patterning, social support, and violence ; (b) 
the milieus within which marriages operate, including microcontexts (e.g., 
the presence of children, life stressors and transitions) and macrocontexts 
(e.g., economic factors, perceived mate availability) ; and (c) the 
conceptualization and measurement of marital satisfaction, including 
2-dimensional, trajectory-based, and social-cognitive approaches. 
Notwithstanding the continued need for theoretical progress in understanding 
the nature and determinants of marital satisfaction, we conclude by calling 
for more large-scale longitudinal research that links marital processes with 
sociocultural contexts, for more disconfirmatory than confirmatory research, 
and for research that directly guides preventive, clinical, and policy-level 
interventions.


25. White, Lynn.
Economic circumstances and family outcomes : A review of the 1990s.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2000, v.62, no.4, pp. 1035-1051, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: This review documents the economic context within which American 
families lived in the 1990s. Despite nearly full employment and growing 
income and wealth for many Americans, problem areas included persistent 
racial gaps in economic well-being, growing inequality, and declining wages 
for young men. Women showed stronger income growth than men in the decade, 
and 2-earner households became increasingly associated with advantage. We 
review the consequences of these trends and of economic well-being generally 
on 4 dimensions of family outcomes: family formation, divorce, marital 
quality, and child well-being. Despite hypotheses suggesting that women's 
earnings might have different effects on family outcomes than men's earnings, 
generally the review supports the expectation that both men's and women's 
economic advantage is associated with more marriage, less divorce, more 
marital happiness, and greater child well-being. Important issues regarding 
measurement, reciprocal relations between family structure and economic 
well-being, and race and gender effects remain unresolved.


26. Gottman, J. M.
The timing of divorce : Predicting when a couple will divorce over a 14-year 
period.
In: Journal of marriage and the family. 2000, v.62, no.3, pp. 737-745, 
ISSN 0022-2445.
Summary: This paper investigates the predictability of divorce in a long-term, 
prospective longitudinal study. Past research has indicated that 2 periods can 
be considered the most critical for the survival of marriages: (a) the first 7 
years of marriage, during which half of all divorces are known to occur, and 
(b) the period during which the first child reaches 14 years of age, which has 
been suggested as a low point for marital satisfaction in the life course. 
In the present study, interaction variables at Time 1 (both during conflict
and in an events-of-the-day discussion following separation of the spouses for 
at least 8 hours) and noninteractive variables were used to predict divorcing 
both early and later in the marriage. A different set of variables predicted 
early divorcing than predicted later divorcing. Negative affect during 
conflict predicted early divorcing, but it did not predict later divorcing. 
By contrast, the lack of positive affect in events-of-the-day and conflict 
discussions predicted later divorcing, but it did not predict early divorcing. 
Prediction was possible over the 14-year period of the study with a model 
that included marital satisfaction, thoughts of marital dissolution, and 
affective interaction in both conversations. The model predicted divorce with 
93% accuracy.


27. Sharlin, S. A.
Long-term successful marriages in Israel.
In: Contemporary family therapy. 1996, v.18, no.2, pp. 225-242, ISSN 0892-2764.
Summary: Long-Term Marriages (LTM) in Israel is part of a larger on-going 
international research. Our study focuses on two related questions: Are all 
long term marriages successful and satisfying? Similar studies have been 
undertaken in the United States, Sweden, Germany, and Chile. This paper 
focuses on the Israeli results with a few cross-cultural comparisons. Israel 
adds several unique features to the research: the people to whom LTM applies 
have emigrated to Israel from 112 different countries, with different cultures 
and nationalities; how Holocaust survivors are distributed in comparison to 
the rest of the population; Israel has the lowest divorce rate in the west; 
family life being a highly valued norm among Jewish people, it will be 
interesting to determine what keeps couples together and whether the motives 
and ingredients for satisfying marriages are similar or different from other 
countries.




28. Charny, I. W.
The impact of extramarital relationships on the continuation of marriages.
In: Journal of sex and marital therapy. 1995, v.21, no.2, pp. 100-115, 
ISSN 0092-623X.
Summary: Two groups of practicing therapists were asked to describe in 
depth a specific extramarital affair with which they were very 
familiar-whether as therapist, relative, or friend or were themselves 
involved. Of 62 cases, 21, or 34 %, ended in divorce-in the therapists'
judgments as a consequence of the infidelity. In 27 cases, or 43.5%, the 
marriages were preserved, but in an overall dysphoric or negative atmosphere. 
In 4 cases, or 6%, the marriages were intact but either the marriage was blah 
or empty in quality or the future of the marriage was judged as still in 
doubt. Only in 9 cases, or 14.5%, were the marriages reported intact and 
characterized by improvement and growth. Of these, 4 were cases of one-time 
affairs. Analysis of the direct impact of the affair on the betrayed spouses 
showed that the majority of the betrayed husbands and wives suffered 
significant damage to their set-image, personal confidence, or sexual 
confidence, feelings of abandonment, attacks on their sense of belonging, 
betrayals of trust, enraged feelings, and/or a surge of justification to 
leave their spouses. The judgments of the therapists reporting the cases were 
that fully 89% of the betrayed spouses either were consciously aware of the 
infidelity or, even if not acknowledging really knew, and that even the 
majority of the betrayed spouses who claimed consciously that they opposed 
their spouses' behavior were unconsciously in collusion with. Abstract/Summary 
them.















































































