Company Name: 
	Artesia Technologies

Product Name: 
	TEAMS

URL:
	www.artesiatech.com

Core Capabilities:

	Import/Ingest: TEAMS provides numerous ways to import media files including desktop import, batch import and administrator import mechanisms for immediate /scheduled imports of very large asset collections. 
	In addition, TEAMS offers 'Import Adapters' for unique types of assets such as Quark Xpress, digital videos, and Microsoft PowerPoint. TEAMS also supports XML-formatted asset information.
		. Web Import
		. Power User Import
		. Bulk Import
		. Import Adapters
		. Hot Folders
		. Rich Media Filters (Audio/Video, Image, Text)
		. Property Shortcuts
		. Image Transformers
		. Text/Document Transformers
		. Enabling Third-Party Transformers (Watermarking, Encryption, etc.)
		. XML-formatted property ingest
		. DTD-compliance checking
		. Scheduled or Immediate
		
		
	.Index: TEAMS automatically enriches content with its physical descriptive property information so that it can be properly categorized according to user needs. In addition, logical descriptive property 
	information can be added and/or edited to optimize the ability to rapidly retrieve and leverage digital assets across the enterprise.	
		. Edit Properties
		. Bulk Edit Properties
		. Edit Content
		. Delete
		. Bulk Delete
		. Undelete	
		
	.Search: TEAMS provides a variety of powerful search options, allowing users to browse for assets, search for assets based on their content, or search for assets based on their properties. All searches 
	can be saved and shared among users or kept private for personal reuse	
	
		. Full Text Search
		. Properties Search, Simple and Advanced
		. Saved Searches
		. Vocabulary Browse Search
		. Search Basket
		. Multiple View Options (Gallery, List, Detail Views)
		
	.Modify: TEAMS gives users complete control over modifying their assets with full check-out/check-in, locking, and version control.	
		. Check Out
		. Check In
		. Version control
		. Video Storyboard
		. Edit video clips
		. Create Play Decision Lists
		
		
	.Link: TEAMS enables users to create, review, and delete relationships between assets, called 'links'. Links are used to define associations between source assets and destination assets, which are related 
	through a specific relationship type such as 'is rendered from' or 'is related to'.	
		. Link Assets
		. Modify Links
		. Navigate Links
		
	.Export/Distribute: TEAMS provides very robust export /distribution capabilities. Assets can be selected, transformed, and delivered to the user's desktop (via web download or e-mail), file location, or to a 
	third party. With all exports/distributions, TEAMS generates a descriptive XML file that contains content and property information. TEAMS can also apply templates or formats to the content at the time of export.	
		. Deliver
		. List
		. Export Adapters
		. Transformations/Renditions
		. Image Transformers
		. Text/Document Transformers
		. Third-Party Transformers (Watermarking, Encryption, etc.)
		. XML-formatted property generation
		. Scheduled or Immediate
		
		
	.Usability Features: TEAMS is designed for the end-user. It contains ease-of-use features that greatly reduce the need for extensive training and ensure a short path to productivity and return on investment.	
		. User Preferences
		. On-line Help
		. User-controlled
		. Internationalization/Localization
		. User Logs
		. Role-, Level- & Organization-based Security	
		
	.Video/Audio: TEAMS provides unique features for audio and video, including editing capabilities as well as pre-built support for popular streaming formats, popular streaming servers and popular video/audio 
	logging software.	
		. Storyboards
		. Clipping
		. Play Decision Lists^(TM)
		. Video/Audio Logging Integration
		. Virage Video Logger Integration
		. Virage Speech To Text 3.0
		. Streaming Server Integration
		. RealSystem Server
		. Windows Media Server
		. Darwin (QuickTime) Streaming Server
	
	.Pre-Built Integration: TEAMS also includes integration with popular third-party software packages. For example, users of Quark XPress can search and drag-and-drop images and text into Quark templates 
	without leaving the tool.
		. Quark Xpress 4.1/5.0
		. Microsoft PowerPoint
		. Interwoven TeamSite
		. InterTrust Digital Rights Management
		. Microsoft Office
		. Microsoft Windows Explorer
	
	.Open and Easy to Integrate: In addition to pre-built integration, TEAMS provides many methods for integration with any other third-party system. This openness has allowed TEAMS to be integrated with 
	third-party ERP systems, e-commerce engines and content delivery networks (CDNs).
	
		. Asset Properties: 
			TEAMS can import asset properties from third-party databases. For example, properties such as 'Author' and 'List Price' can be populated from an ERP inventory system such as Oracle Inventory.
		. Import/Export: 
			TEAMS can import/export assets to/from any source/destination location. In addition, all TEAMS imports/exports can include all asset properties in XML format.
		. Transformations: 
			TEAMS Transformers can change/render an asset at import or export. A typical transformation is the creation of a new image rendition (from high-resolution TIFF to low resolution JPG or GIF). 
			Advanced, customized Transformations can perform 'special processing' such as the placement of a specific rendition of an asset on a website, on a content-delivery network (CDN), or in a third-party 
			rights-management system.
		. Java API: 
			TEAMS provides a second-generation API to allow integrators to access all of the functions of TEAMS and include/embed this functionality in custom applications or third party 'portals/websites'. 
			The TEAMS API can also be used to create custom interfaces such as an 'asset and properties bridge' to another system.
	
	
	
Platforms:
 
	Server Operating Systems
		.Solaris 2.7 and 2.8
		.NT 4.0
		.Windows 2000
	
	Desktop Operating Systems
		.NT 4.0
		.Mac OS 8.6 and 9.x
	
	Database
		.Oracle 8.0.6, 8.1.6 and 8.1.7

	Browsers
		.Netscape 4.6x and 4.7x
		.Internet Explorer 5.x

	Java
		.1.1.8
		.1.3


Clients:
	AOL Time Warner Book Group
		Challenge: 
			Expand the reach of extensive publishing holdings to generate new revenue streams

		TEAMS Solution: 
			Creates enterprise-wide web-accessible Digital Asset Warehouse

		Benefits:
			. Streamline processes - can now efficiently organize, store and repurpose print and audio books and their associated collateral
			. Enhanced marketing capabilities in new digital channels
			. Create new revenue streams (ebooks, print on demand)

	BBC Technology
		Challenge: 
			Design state-of-the-art digital broadcast and media solutions for leading global clients


		TEAMS Solution:
			. Best-of-breed digital asset management platform

		Benefits:
			. Streamlines the production, management and distribution of rich media programming across emerging channels
			. Enhances operational efficiencies
			. Safeguards content
			. Maximum flexibility (open APIs)

	Canon
		Challenge:
			 Distributors and partners across the country need to access the most up-to-date marketing materials

		TEAMS Solution: 
			Digital Asset Warehouse as the infrastructure for storing and managing all collateral

		Benefits:
			.Streamlined processes
			.Lower costs
			.Online collaboration with third party vendors
			.Brand consistency
			.Higher margins
	
	DaimlerChrysler
		Challenges:
	    		* Difficult to find and access corporate brand content
			* Redundant creative efforts
    			* Wasted time and money

		TEAMS Solution:
    			* Accelerated Digital Asset Management system (ADAM)
    			* Common system for all brand content

		Benefits:
    			* Cost reductions
			* Shorter process cycle times
    			* Consistent content reuse
    			* Increased continuity of brands
    			* Easy access to corporate digital brand assets

	
	General Motors
		Challenge: 
			Better manage a century of GM brand assets: photos and commercials

		TEAMS Solution: 
			Provides a corporate media archive for over a half million brand assets

		Benefits:
			.Significant reduction in search and retrieval time for archived brand assets
			.Increased revenues from quicker fulfillment of licensing requests

Contact Info:

	700 King Farm Boulevard, Suite 400
	Rockville, MD   20850 USA

	301.548.4000 voice
	301.548.4015 fax
	1.866.ARTESIA toll free
	sales@artesia.com
	partners@artesia.com
	
	
	
