				Preliminary Meeting
							

This document summarizes the results of a preliminary meeting held with Vickers
and Benson Arnold Inc. on Jan. 14 regarding the possibility of my team performing 
an analysis of a digital asset management system required by the company. 
The two hour meeting was held between Sergei Iakhnin and Fil Magnoli(head 
of the IT department at V&B Arnold Inc.) and produced a multitude of general
information describing the system, it's intended users, possible budgets and 
project delivery timelines as summarized below.


List of Interview Questions


1. Describe in general terms the proposed system.
2. Who are the principle clients/users?
3. Who(if any) are the secondary users?
4. What is the main(intended) functionality of the system?
5. What is the level of necessity for the system?
6. What are the budget constraints?
7. What are the time constraints associated with this project?
8. How are the tasks the system is intended for being carried out in the company at 
present?
9. Is the production of this system an initiative of the management or clients
(users)?
10. What previous attempts were made to solve the problem?
11. What prevented an earlier implementation of the system?
12. What existing technologies in the company support the new system?
13. What existing technologies in the company may interfere with the new system?
14. Is the implementation of the system likely to affect the number of people 
currently employed at the company?
15. Is the system likely to significantly alter the current working environment 
of its intended users?
15. Is the system likely to complicate or simplify the current business process?


Summary of Obtained Information

N.B. The meeting took place as more of a free flowing discussion rather than 
following the exact ordering of the questionnaire above and the summary will be 
presented in paragraph or point form as needed.


Vickers and Benson Arnold Inc. is a large Canadian based advertising agency with 
two offices in Toronto and one office in Chicago. The information system in 
question was requested by the main office in Toronto which employs around 200 
people and is located at 1920 Yonge st. at the corner of Davisville. The company 
has recently changed ownership and was bought out by Vivendi Universal which 
resulted in several changes to company organization. The proposed new system is a 
result of these changes and is intended to be a first step in establishing a 
project workflow information sytem within the company. 

The required system is intended to be used by the production studio in the company. 
Graphical artists and art directors within the studio work with large collections 
of images, video and audio that are used in various advertising campaigns. All data 
is currently stored on individuals' workstations and shared between users through 
a system of public access drop boxes on these machines. At monthly intervals data 
is recorded onto DVD discs for storage and backup purposes. The current setup 
introduces a significant amount of redundancy and confusion within the studio file
system and people often find themselves searching for a current version of a 
certain file or are faced with multiple versions of the same file. Since most files
are production quality images they are frequently over 100 Mb in size and when 
multiple copies of a file are present introduce a heavy toll on the file system. 

A further challenge is introduced when a campaign is completed and needs to be sent 
to a print shop for final print. Print shops require that files be in certain 
formats and adhere to certain specifications before they are sent to the shop via 
FTP. Preparing files in this manner is often a tedious and confusing task and 
errors are frequent.

The system required by the company should deal with both issues described above in
that it should provide the studio employees with the ability to manage and share 
their files easily and effectively with respect to both time and space, and also 
act as a content delivery system by helping its users in preparing and sending 
completed campaigns to various print shops. The exact utility of the system is at 
this time unclear and will require further interviews with people managing and 
working at the studio to determine. 

The studio currently operates on Macintosh computers each of which has access to a 
Windows 2000 file server, however at later stages the system may need to be 
extended to also support PC workstations. This cross platform compatibility 
requirement suggests a web browser based implementation as a likely candidate.

Several products, and groups of products, currently exist that provide various 
degrees of required functionality. The makers of these products include companies 
such as Adobe and Quark and these software systems are predominantly highly 
expensive and complicated to install and maintain. Several such systems exceed 
$250,000 in price which is beyond what the company is willing to expend on the 
project($100,000-$200,000) at present. This has prevented the company from 
obtaining the system in the past.

We will need to further investigate the products available on the market today as 
well as a possibility of in-house development(the company has a subdivision which 
acts as a web development shop), or perhaps a blend of both and give the company a 
recommendation with regards to the course of action they need to take and what 
returns they may expect on the capital invested in the production of this system.

I was also advised that it is the company's goal to ultimately install a project 
workflow management system across the company of which the system described above 
is to be the first part. The larger system will likely have a user base of more 
than 100 people(far exceeding the initial user base in the studio of about 20-30 
people) and will be used by employees from several departmens including accounting,
marketing, copy writers, and possibly clients. It is the intent of the company to 
market the system to their clients as one that provides them with the ability to 
request and produce localized advertising campaigns. This would be appealing to 
large franchises such as banks, communication companies, automotive companies, 
restaurant chains etc. which constitute a large percentage of the company's 
clientele(Bank of Montreal, Volkswagen, previously MacDonald's). It is certain that
the design of such a system is beyond our capabilities as information analysts 
and architects as well as beyond the scope and time constraints of the course. 
However we do need to keep this ultimate goal in mind in designing the smaller 
system in order to prevent introducing anything that may obstruct or prevent an 
implementation of the larger system within the company.

This preliminary meeting provided a large amount of information about both the 
company and the problem at hand. This information will be used extensively in our 
research. Consequent meetings with company staff should help us further define the
problem and possible solutions. There seems to be high level of enthusiasm within 
the company associated with this project which should prove very useful in 
obtaining internal resources to aid us in completing our project. 


























